All right one last case here what happens if you have more than two.
We previously saw the equation.
Well if you have more than two equation is simply just a generalization of that.
So now you simply add them all up except you don't.
You always add the reciprocal of the resistance value.
So if you have three terms simply looks like this one over are one plus one over R2 plus one over our
three and that's it.
That's our value.
Now for one divided by my equivalent resistance.
So let's consider this case imagine here this was a three ohm resistance.
This was a six resistance.
This was a one ohm resistance.
So the way to apply the formula here is one divided by my equivalent resistance value is 1 over three
plus one over six plus one over one.
All right.
I could put things on a common denominator.
Maybe six is kind of a good common denominator here you'd have two plus one plus six.
This gives me nine over six which I can simplify to three over two.
OK.
And that's the value for one divided by are equivalent.
So at the end of the day are equivalent.
You simply have to flip this number gives me two thirds.
One thing I want you to notice about this equivalent value of the resistance that I got.
Notice it's less than 1 right.
The smallest value I had here was 1 ohm and the value of the equivalent resistance is always going to
be smaller than the smallest value that you have in for your original circuit.
So keep that in mind if ever you do a calculation of resistors in parallel and you end up getting a
bigger number than one or more you must make a mistake somewhere.
You're always going to get a smaller value.
Now I previously showed you a trick where I was you know if you only had two of them it was very easy
to simply multiply them and divided by the sum.
In this case I have three but can I use that trick.
Well you can what you can do is you can treat them two at a time.
Well let me maybe use a different color here.
Let me highlight what I want to show you here.
So the way I would do it now is well let's consider everything in the green box.
Everything in these green boxes.
I can simplify everything in the green box and represent everything in the green box by one equivalent
resistance.
And I know how to do that because the value here.
Well what I want to do the value here would be are equivalent.
Let's call our equivalent one because I have to do this in two steps in order to find the equivalent
resistance of everything in this green box.
There's only two.
You simply multiply them and divided by the sum we just did that case 18 over 9 years Me 2 ohms.
So now what I can do is well if you're going to redraw the circuit what it would look like it would
look something like this.
So you really have everything in the green box here which is a tool resistor which is now in parallel
with everything outside the Green Box is a 1 ohm resistor
while Guess what I can do now I could apply the same trick because now I have two resistors in parallel
with each other.
I can use the same trick as I previously did and find the total equivalent resistance.
So are equivalent.
I have a 2 and a 1 only multiply them 2 times 1 divided by the sum two plus one gives me three at the
end.
I get two thirds of an ohm.
Notice I get the exact same values I did using kind of the longer approach.
OK.
So even if you have more than two you can still just pair them up simplify them using our trick and
then just repeat the same steps.
Pretty straightforward.